# Predict Customer Churn

- Project **Predict Customer Churn** of ML DevOps Engineer Nanodegree Udacity

## Project Description
This project focuses on developing a churn prediction model. The purpose is to identify customers who are likely to churn so proactive measures can be taken to retain them. The project uses various machine learning techniques to process and analyze customer data, predict churn, and evaluate the effectiveness of different models.

## Files and data description
Below is an overview of the key files and data included in this project:

- `churn_library.py`: Main library containing functions for data preprocessing, exploratory data analysis, feature engineering, model training, and results visualization.
- `churn_notebook.ipynb`: Jupyter notebook that demonstrates the initial step-by-step process of the churn prediction.
- `churn_script_logging_and_tests.py`: Python script that includes logging and unit tests for validating the functionality of the churn library.
- `data/`: Directory containing the dataset used for churn prediction.
- `images/`: Directory where all plots generated during exploratory data analysis and model training are saved.
- `models/`: Directory where trained machine learning models are stored.
- `logs/`: Log files generated by `churn_script_logging_and_tests.py`.
- `requirements_py3.6.txt` and `requirements_py3.8.txt`: Files containing the list of libraries required to run the project with Python versions 3.6 and 3.8 respectively.
- `README.md`: This file, providing an overview of the project, its structure, and instructions for running the scripts.


## Running Files
To run the files in this project, follow these steps:

1. Ensure you have Python installed, and it is advisable to use a virtual environment.
2. Install the necessary dependencies:
   ```bash
   pip install -r requirements_py3.8.txt  # If using Python 3.8
   ```
   
3. To run the exploratory data analysis and model training process, execute the notebook:
   ```bash
   jupyter notebook churn_notebook.ipynb
   ```
4. To perform tests and logging, run the testing script:
   ```bash
   python churn_script_logging_and_tests.py
   ```
Each script and notebook contains further details and step-by-step instructions on what is performed and expected outcomes.
